is joining Toast Masters really worth it
in this video I'm going to give you the
five best things and five worst things
about Toast Masters in my personal
opinion so let's jump right into this
list and let's start with the best
number five on the best list is the
leadership and development opportunities
so many people think Toast Masters is
all about simply public speaking but
there's so much more to it than that
each Club has its own executive team and
they're responsible for organizing the
club there's a Treasurer there's a
president there's a vice president of
marketing and Communications there's
several different roles within the
Toastmasters executive and it's
encouraged for club members to take
these positions every single year what
you come to realize over the years is
that Toast Masters not only helps you
with your public speaking skills but
also makes you a better leader number
four on the best reasons to join a Toast
Masters Club is that it is cost
effective there are membership dues that
come with being a
Toastmaster however compared to many
clubs that exist out there the
Toastmasters fees are pretty reasonable
for most people I understand Club dues
vary depending on the region you're in
but my personal experience has been that
the value I get from Toast Masters
definitely outweighs the financial
burden number three on the list of
reasons you want to join Toast Masters
the best things about Toast Masters is
that it reduces your anxiety when it
comes to public speaking the whole
reason I chose to join Toast Masters in
the first place was that for my 9-to-5
professional job once per month I was
asked to speak in front of a group of
about 60 people I would be incredibly
nervous about this leading up to that
speak opportunity about 2 weeks
beforehand I would start getting anxious
and the anxiety would live with me for 2
weeks then I would get through the
speech it would go okay but then I would
only have about two weeks of stressfree
mentality before I would start worrying
about the next public speaking
opportunity and if you do the math that
is half of my life that I was spending
worried and stressed about public
speaking what I found with joining Toast
Masters was that it reduced that anxiety
significantly after I got used to the
repetitions public speaking didn't
become such a scary thing anymore it was
something that I was used to doing on a
regular basis the second best thing
about Toast Masters in my opinion is the
constructive feedback you get every
single meeting what's unique about Toast
Masters is that every single role within
the club meeting is evaluated so you are
getting real time feedback from a third
party another member in your Club who is
telling you things that you did very
well which will boost your confidence
but also areas that you can improve
which is something you can keep in mind
for the next time you get the
opportunity to speak which is hopefully
your next Toastmasters meeting is so
beneficial having a club of other
members who are ready and willing to
help you in your public speaking journey
by giving you that feedback because
often we don't know our own weaknesses
we may not realize we have a particular
bad habit when we're on stage or that we
use a certain crutch word constantly
having other people who are able to
point these things out for us is
incredibly beneficial the number one
best thing about Toast Masters is the
practice and repetition the whole idea
of Toast Masters is every single meeting
you get the opportunity to stand in
front of the other Toast Master
and speak the goal is to have every
single attendee speak every single
meeting so if you are doing that once a
week or once every two weeks that is
great repetition and I always give the
example that public speaking and
becoming a stronger public speaker is
kind of like working out you can read
all the books and watch all the content
but at the end of the day until you put
in the Reps until you start actually
going out there and speaking and
practicing say you're not going to see
significant Improvement and it's the
same thing with going to the gym you can
learn all sorts of theory about
weightlifting but until you actually
start lifting those weights you're not
going to see the results and on the flip
side I know people who have said oh I
went to Toast Masters years ago I don't
need to go again that is like saying I
worked out years ago I don't need to go
again well as we know your body doesn't
main its shape over a decade similar to
public speaking you may hang on to some
of those key skills but I have found
personally when I go an extended period
of time without attending toast Master's
meetings my public speaking skills do
get a bit Rusty okay those were the best
things about Toast Masters so you're
probably thinking what on Earth could
put me off from not wanting to attend
one of these meetings but the reality is
I have brought friends with me to
Toastmasters meetings
and not every single friend has decided
to continue attending or to become a
member of the club a few have but a few
have decided that it's not for them and
so with this video I wanted to be really
transparent and also share the five
worst things about Toast Masters in my
opinion or the five hindrances or
roadblocks that some people don't love
about the program starting off with
number five is the repetitiveness
Toastmasters meetings have a great
structure you have in many meetings your
toast your Toastmaster comes up and
gives an introduction you have roles
like the Garian the humorist or the joke
Master then you have speakers then you
have table topics then you have
evaluations after that in the second
half of the meeting and that is great
but most Toast Masters clubs keep the
exact same agenda every single week and
of course they do this makes sense it
makes it easy for club members to know
what is coming to prepare for their
roles they probably have to keep the
agendas the same but one of the
downsides to that is that there is a
level of repetitiveness every meeting
you have people coming up explaining
what the role is why we have this role
in Toast Masters and that's fantastic
for new members or people who haven't
attended a meeting before but for the
Toast Masters who have been going for
several years it's the same descriptions
time and time again simply delivered by
different club members so if I had to
give the number five downside it would
be repetitiveness the number four worst
thing about Toast Masters is membership
fees and you might be thinking well wait
a second you said the number four best
thing was the low fees and low cost of
joining and that's true but everyone has
a different Financial circumstance and
the fact is Toastmasters still cost
money each Club is required to send a
certain amount of the du's percentage to
Toastmasters International that's a
mandatory cost and for some people that
may be a significant charge even if
they're only paying it once a year or
once every six months it may be cost
prohibitive for them they may not be
able to attend because that cost is too
high so I would say on the number four
worst side is that there's still a cost
to this program it's not completely free
which does make sense why they have it
that way way but the fact that that may
limit some people from joining is
something I would put on the negative
the third worst thing about Toast
Masters in my opinion is the
inconsistent feedback so while it's
great that we're constantly getting
constructive criticism and thoughts on
how we are doing as speakers various
club members are giving us those
evaluations some club members are very
experienced some club members are brand
new and so there may be a level of
inconsistent feedback back and just
because you are told something that you
should be improving on your speech
doesn't mean that particular individual
is 100% correct that is their opinion
and so it's important as Toast Masters
that we understand that that we realize
anyone can have a fair opinion and it's
good feedback to receive and decide how
we're going to utilize that and improve
as speakers in the future but I will
note that inconsistent feedback back
based on the fact you're getting
evaluations from various members of the
club is something that could be
perceived as a negative the second worst
thing about Toast Masters is the
limitations or
restrictions here's what I mean by that
as an example our club here in Colona
British Columbia moved to hybrid
meetings about well during Co during Co
we transition to hybrid meetings and
that has been fantastic because it's
been inclusive for other people who
aren't able to make meetings in person
and I know this is the case for many
clubs here's the downside that does
limit us as speakers in our stage area
and where we can speak because if you go
to a conference and you see a
professional keynote speaker many of
them utilize the full stage they move
around some of them even walk into the
crowd and interact and in my opinion
being restricted to a small area a small
box where you can speak and not being
able to move around the room is taking
away an element of what can be really
powerful skill when it comes to public
speaking so there is a bit of a limit
and a restriction in that sense on the
other hand there is sometimes a bit of a
restriction by the formalities of Toast
Masters some club members are very
determined to keep the structure and the
the rules which can be a good thing it's
important to have structure but that may
dial back from the creativity from the
spontaneity from some of those things
that make great speakers great speakers
and by having a meeting be too formal
sometimes it can dial that back so that
would be my number two negative is
somewhat of a restriction that comes
with Toastmasters meetings and the
number one thing that I think is not
great about Toast Masters is Comfort
many people myself included become
comfortable with the format of Toast
Masters with the structure with roles
that we are strong at and we may get in
a bad habit of not challenging ourselves
to simply just show up to meetings and
go through the motions maybe you answer
a table topics question sign up for a
role that you've signed up for 50 times
before and we don't always push
ourselves and that is an individual
challenge I can speak for myself that
for example when it comes to Pathways I
know there's a lot of room for growth I
haven't really explored the pathways
program as deeply as I could and so
that's something on me that is the
opportunity that I have and I need to
take advantage of that but I will say
there's a level of comfort that happens
with people who have been attending
Toast Masters for a very long time and
it's important to get outside of that
comfort zone to challenge ourselves and
so that is one potential negative my
number one negative is the Comfort the
familiarity with the Toastmaster
structure for anyone who wants to be
taking on hourlong speeches keynote
speeches we know that Toast Masters is
always 5 to seven minutes so if we get
you too used to that type of situation
it may be hard to expand and to go
beyond Toast Masters but that would be
the number one NE negative is Comfort I
hope you've appreciated me being as
transparent as possible about the five
best things and the five worst things
when it comes to Toast Masters clearly
the positives outweigh the negatives in
my opinion I talk about Toast Masters so
often on this channel it is one of the
best things that you can do to improve
your public speaking skills and the
negatives were tough to come up with I
had to be very nitpicky but I see the
reality that not everyone chooses to
join Toast Masters so I wanted to give
you all of the information up front of
why you may be off-put by the meeting
concept but I hope that you can get past
those negatives and really explore Toast
Masters because it's one of the best
ways for you to improve your public
speaking skills did this video provide
you with any value if it did please
subscribe to my channel hit that like
button and comment below what has your
experience been with Toast Masters are
you brand new have you been a
Toastmaster for a long time do you agree
with any of my points on the best or the
worst side let me know in the comments
and I'll catch you on the next video